# MALADE
This is a repository for the paper, MALADE: Orchestration of LLM-powered Agents with Retrieval Augmented Generation for Pharmacovigilance

## Set up environment and install dependencies
IMPORTANT: Please ensure you are using Python 3.11+. If you are using poetry,
you may be able to just run `poetry env use 3.11` if you have Python 3.11 available in your system.

```bash
# clone this repository 
git clone [this-repository]
cd malade
```

Environment setup with conda:
```bash
# create empty environment:
conda env create -n malade python=3.11 -c conda-forge
conda activate malade
```

Setup with venv:
```bash
# create a virtual env under project root, .venv directory
python3 -m venv .venv

# activate the virtual env
. .venv/bin/activate
```

Install dependencies with Poetry:
```bash
# Optionally: poetry lock
poetry install
```

## Set up environment variables (API keys, etc)

To use the example scripts with an OpenAI LLM, you need an OpenAI API Key.
In the root of the repo, copy the `.env-template` file to a new file `.env`:
```bash
cp .env-template .env
```

Set up a Qdrant instance and API key is required(see the [Langroid instructions](https://github.com/langroid/langroid?tab=readme-ov-file#set-up-environment-variables-api-keys-etc)); set up `QDRANT_API_URL` and `QDRANT_API_KEY` in `.env` as described there. 

An OpenFDA API key is also required (get one [here](https://open.fda.gov/apis/authentication/)), store it in `OPENFDA_API_KEY`.

## (Optional) Setup for drug representative generation

This step is required only to run `DrugFinder` and the drug category representative process.

Make sure that MIMIC-IV is installed and running on your machine as PostgreSQL database.

The MIMIC-IV can be obtained [here](https://physionet.org/content/mimiciv/2.2/#files).
Access requires completing the following training described [here](https://physionet.org/content/mimiciv/view-required-training/2.2/#1).

Instructions and code for loading into PostgreSQL are [here](https://github.com/MIT-LCP/mimic-code/tree/main/mimic-iv/buildmimic/postgres).

Finally, ensure that your user account has access to the `mimiciv` database.

# Outputs

The outputs from MALADE are in the `outputs` folder; outputs from `DrugFinder` are in `outputs/representative_drugs.json` and the outputs from `DrugOutcomeInfoAgent` and `CategoryOutcomeRiskAgent` are in `outputs/interactions.json`. See `outputs/representative_drugs.md` and `outputs/omop_results.md` for readable outputs. The logs generated by the agents are in the `logs` directory; the path is of the form "logs/DrugFinder-{category name}.log" for `DrugFinder`, "logs/DrugOutcomeInfoAgent-{outcome}-{drug name}.log" for `DrugOutcomeInfoAgent`, and "logs/CategoryOutcomeRiskAgent-{outcome}-{category name}.log" for `CategoryOutcomeRiskAgent`.

# Code Structure

The core code is contained in the `malade` directory. `malade/omop.py` defines the OMOP Ground Truth table, and the associated drug categories and conditions. `malade/drug_categories.py` contains the code for finding representative drugs; `malade/omop_interactions.py` contains 
`CategoryOutcomeRiskAgent` and `DrugOutcomeInfoAgent` and the code for identifying drug-outcome associations and labeling drug category-outcome associations. `malade/critic_agent.py` contains the code for `Critic` and `malade/omop_evaluation.py` contains utilities for evaluation (for use by `results.ipynb`).

`malade/doc` contains RAG-related code, in particular, `malade/fda_handler.py`, which contains `FDAHandler`. `malade/utils` contains general utilities, see `malade/utils/openfda.py` for the OpenFDA query code. `medrag/tools` contains utilities related to tool-use.

# Run Experiments

If MIMIC-IV was set up, run `DrugFinder` and the drug category representative identification process with `python3 malade/drug_categories.py --recompute`.
Run `DrugOutcomeInfoAgent` and the drug-outcome association identification process with `python3 malade/omop_interactions.py --recompute_iteractions`; 
run `CategoryOutcomeRiskAgent` and the category-outcome labeling process with `python3 malade/omop_interactions.py --recompute_labels`. Run `python3 scripts/generate_summary_files.py` to process the outputs from MALADE into a readable format.

`results.ipynb` contains the code to generate the final experimental results. 
